---
layout: post
title:  "testing!"
date:   2023-07-29 13:11:01 -0400
categories: stories
---

### This is a test. This is a test.


#### For the Canon of the Consulate, Part 8: The Pit’s Internal Systems

While The Pit may seem like a simple coliseum, it is a living, breathing structure whose history spans nearly the entire history of the empire. The location was chosen a mere seven years after Nosibm Retsam stamped out the third and final coup attempt during his tenure as Chancellor of the Senate. After an investigation revealing that the coup was bankrolled by the same group of senators that were suspect to have perpetrated the first, the Chancellor decided that exile was a punishment too lenient on those involved. They were to be made examples of, for the public to see what happens to those who attempt to disturb the peace. A location was determined; a barren field outside of the city limits, and the traitors were publicly executed. Surprised at the turnout, the treasury found another source of income to supplement the taxes: bloodsport. 

The upper levels of the pit, the spectators area, are arranged in a manner to maximize efficiency moving crowds of thousands of viewers. Below the public areas lies a system that has been developed and overhauled over the past 270 years to a point where it could operate without any external assistance for three fortnights before losing losing sustainability. Beneath the pit, there are five floors, each with its own purpose.
 The floor immediately under the Pit contains machinery designed to terraform the pit itself. The machinery can raise walls within the pit, open trap doors, and operate the two main doors that lead into the pit. With a day’s preparation, the Pit can be completely flooded. Floors below are living quarters for the Pit’s permanent staff, which is comprised nearly completely of slaves. The slaves come from a number of backgrounds. Most are prisoners of war, some refused to pay taxes, and still others were imports from the countryside. Every lunar cycle, a handful of slaves are cycled through the games within the pit as part of free entertainment. The floor below the slave barracks was used as storage for grains and feed for the beasts on the fifth and final floor. 
	

